# Module 01 <br> Exploring ASP.NET MVC 5

#### Contents:
[Module Overview](01-0.md)    
[**Lesson 1:** Overview of Microsoft Web Technologies](01-1.md)    
[**Lesson 2:** Overview of ASP.NET 4.5](01-2.md)    
[**Lesson 3:** Introduction to ASP.NET MVC 5](01-3.md)    

## Module Overview

Microsoft ASP.NET MVC 5 and the other web technologies of the .NET Framework help you create and host dynamic, powerful, and extensible web applications. ASP.NET MVC 5 supports agile, test-driven development and the latest web standards such as HTML 5. To build robust web applications, you need to be familiar with the technologies and products in the Microsoft web stack. You also need to know how ASP.NET applications work with IIS, Visual Studio, SQL Server, Windows Azure, and Windows Azure SQL Database to deliver engaging webpages to site visitors. To choose a programming language that best suits a set of business requirements, you need to know how Model-View-Controller (MVC) applications differ from the other ASP.NET programming models: Web Pages and Web Forms.

The web application that you will design and develop in the labs throughout this course will help you develop web applications that fulfill business needs.

### Objectives

After completing this module, you will be able to:

- Describe the role of ASP.NET in the web technologies stack, and how to use ASP.NET to build web applications.

- Describe the three programming models available in ASP.NET: Web Pages, Web Forms, and MVC—and select an appropriate model for a given project.

- Distinguish between an MVC Model, an MVC Controller, and an MVC View.

