# Module 01 Review and Takeaways <br> Exploring ASP.NET MVC 5

In this module, you have seen the tools, technologies, and web servers that are available in the Microsoft
web stack, which you can use to build and host web applications for intranets and on the Internet. You
should also be able to distinguish applications written in the three ASP.NET programming models: Web
Pages, Web Forms, and MVC. You should be able to use MVC applications to render webpages by using
models, views, and controllers.

**Best Practice**: Use Web Pages when you have simple requirements or have developers with little experience of ASP.NET.

**Best Practice**: Use Web Forms when you want to create a user interface by dragging controls from a toolbox onto each webpage or when your developers have experience of Web Forms or Windows Forms.

**Best Practice**: Use MVC when you want the most precise control over HTML and URLs, when you want to cleanly separate business logic, user interface code, and input logic, or when you want to perform Test Driven Development.

## Common Issues and Troubleshooting Tips

|Common Issue |Troubleshooting Tip|
|---|---|
|You add a new view to an MVC application, but when you try to access the page, you receive an HTTP 404 error.||

**Additional Reading**: For more information about ASP.NET, including forums, blogs, and third-party tools, visit the official ASP.NET site: http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=293681&clcid=0x409

## Review Question(s)

**Question**: Which of the shared features of ASP.NET can you use in Web Pages, Web Forms, and MVC applications to increase the speed with which frequently-requested pages are returned to the browser?

**Question**: You want to create a simple website that shares dates and venues for games for your sports club members. The sports club has no budget to buy software. Which development environment should you use to create the site?

## Real-world Issues and Scenarios

You have written a web application for a client that sells hats. Visitors to the site will be able to register, redeem offer vouchers, and purchase hats. You expect site traffic to be steady through most of the year, but to peak just before Christmas. Should you recommend IIS or Windows Azure for hosting the site?