# Module 03 <br> Developing ASP.NET MVC 5 Models

#### Contents:
[Module Overview](03-0.md)    
[**Lesson 1:** Creating MVC Models](03-1.md)    
[**Lesson 2:** Working with Data](03-2.md)    

## Module Overview

Most web applications need to interact with various types of data or objects. An e-commerce application, for example, helps manage products, shopping carts, customers, and orders. A social networking application might help manage users, status updates, comments, photos, and videos. A blog is used to manage blog entries, comments, categories, and tags. When you write an MVC web application, you create an MVC model to _model_ the data for your web application. Within this model, you create a model class for each type of object. The model class describes the properties of each type of object and can include business logic that matches business processes. Therefore, the model is a fundamental building- block in an MVC application and a good place to start when you write code. Models interact with the information store that underlies your site, which is usually a database. Therefore, you need to understand data access techniques and technologies to write models. In this module, you will see how to create the code for models and access data by using Entity Framework and LINQ.

### Objectives

After completing this module, you will be able to:
- Add a model to an MVC application and write code in it to implement the business logic.
- Create a new SQL Azure database to store data for the web application.

