# Module 06 <br> Testing and Debugging ASP.NET MVC 5 Web Applications

#### Contents:

[Module Overview](06-0.md)    
[**Lesson 1:** Unit Testing MVC Components](06-1.md)    
[**Lesson 2:** Implementing an Exception Handling Strategy](06-2.md)    

## Module Overview

Software systems such as web applications are complex and require multiple components, often written by different developers, to work together. Incorrect assumptions, inaccurate understanding, coding errors, and many other sources can create bugs that result in exceptions or unexpected behavior. To improve the quality of your web application and create a satisfying user experience, you must identify bugs from any source and eliminate them. Traditionally, most testing has been performed at the end of a development project. However, it has recently become widely accepted that testing throughout the project life cycle improves quality and ensures that there are no bugs in production software. You need to understand how to run tests on small components of your web application to ensure that they function as expected before you assemble them into a complete web application. You also need to know how to use the tools available in Microsoft Visual Studio 2015 to debug and trace exceptions when they arise.

### Objectives

After completing this module, you will be able to:

- Run unit tests against the ModelViewController (MVC) components, such as model classes, and locate potential bugs.

- Build an MVC application that handles exceptions smoothly and robustly.

