# Module 07 <br> Structuring ASP.NET MVC 5 Web Applications

#### Contents:

[Module Overview](07-0.md)    
[**Lesson 1:** Analyzing Information Architecture](07-1.md)    
[**Lesson 2:** Configuring Routes](07-2.md)    
[**Lesson 3:** Creating a Navigation Structure](07-3.md)

## Module Overview

An MVC web application can grow large and complex and the application can contain many types of information that relate to each other in complicated ways. A key challenge for such web applications is to ensure that users can easily locate the information that interests them. Although a search tool is helpful, you should design your web application in such a way that users can navigate to the page they need through a short sequence of links. At each level, users must know what link to click next. The URLs that users see in the Address bar must be readable and understandable. You need to understand how to present the model classes you have designed in a way that is logical to the user. You also need to ensure that Internet search engines can crawl and analyze your web application structure, so that your application content appears close to the top of the search engine results. You can achieve these goals by learning about ASP.NET routing and navigation.

### Objectives

After completing this module, you will be able to:

- Plan suitable information architecture for a given set of functional requirements.

- Add routes to the ASP.NET routing engine and ensure that URLs are user-friendly throughout an MVC web application.

- Add navigation controls to an application to enable users to locate data rapidly.

