# MODULE 7 <br> STRUCTURING ASP.NET MVC 5 WEB APPLICATIONS

## LAB 7 - INTRODUCTION TO  ROUTING

**Estimated time to complete this lab: 30 minutes**

Every ASP.NET MVC application needs routes to allow it to handle requests. Routes are the entry points into your MVC application. This lab describes how to define routes and discusses how they map requests to executable code, starting with the simplest kind of routes, called attribute routes, which are new in ASP.NET MVC 5. After that, the discussion turns to the traditional routes that have been available since ASP.NET MVC 1.

Routing within the ASP.NET MVC framework serves two main purposes:
- It matches incoming requests that would not otherwise match a file on the file system and it maps the requests to a controller action.
- It constructs outgoing URLs that correspond to controller actions.

The preceding two items describe only what Routing does in the context of an ASP.NET MVC application. In this lab you will dig deeper and uncover additional Routing features available for ASP.NET.

### Lab Objectives
After completing this lab, you will be able to:
* Define attribute routes
* Define routes values
* Define controller routes
* Define routes Constraints

### Lab Procedures
**A. Defining Attribute Routes**

Before you start looking at the details, here's a quick overview of the major concepts involved in defining attribute routes. A route definition starts with a URL template, which specifies the pattern that the route will match.
Route definitions can appear as attributes on either the controller class or on an action method. Routes can also specify constraints and  default values for the various parts of the URL, providing tight control over how and when the route matches incoming request URLs.
Routes can even have names associated with them, which comes into play for outgoing URL construction (the second main purpose of Routing). We'll cover named routes a bit later.
Follow these steps to start with an extremely simple route and build up from there:

1.	Make  sure  the   project   from   the   previous  lab  is   open   in  your **Solution  Explorer**.

2.	Search and click <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`Global.asax.cs`</span> from the Solution Explorer.

3.	You'll notice that the <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`Application_Start`</span> method contains  a call to the <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`RegisterRoutes`</span> method.

    This  method  is the  central  control  point  for  your  routes  and is located in the <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`~/App_Start/RouteConfig.cs`</span>file. Because you're starting with attribute routes, you'll clear out everything in the <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`RegisterRoutes`</span> method for now and just have it enable attribute routing by calling the  <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`MapMvcAttributeRoutes`</span>  registration method.

4.	When you're done, your `RegisterRoutes` method should look like this:
    
    ```C# 
    public static void RegisterRoutes(RouteCollection routes)
    {
      routes.MapMvcAttributeRoutes();
    }
    ```

5. At its core, a route's job is to map a request to an action. The easiest way to do this is using an attribute directly on an action method:

    ```C#
    public class HomeController : Controller
    {
      [Route("about")]
      public ActionResult About()
      {
        return View();
      }
    }
    ```
    This route attribute will run your `About` method any time a request comes in with `/about` as the URL. You tell MVC which URL you're using, and MVC runs your code. It doesn't get much  simpler than this.

6.	If you have more than one URL for your action, you use multiple route attributes. For ex.ample, you might want your home page to be accessible through the URLs <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`/`, `/home`, and  `/home/index`.</span> Those routes would look like this:

    ```c#
    [Route("")]
    [Route("home")] 
    [Route("home/index")] 
    public ActionResult Index()
    {
      return View();
    }
    ```

**B.	Defining Routes Values**
The static routes you saw earlier are great for the simplest routes, but not every URL is static. For example, if your action shows the details for a person record, you might want to include the record ID in your URL
Follow these steps to define the routes values by adding a *route parameter*:

1.	Putting curly braces around id creates a placeholder for some text that you want to reference by name later.
    
    ```c#
    [Route("person/{id}")]
    public ActionResult Details(int id)
    {
      // Do some work
      return View();
    }
    ```

2.	To be precise, you're capturing a path segment, which  is one  of part of a URL path separated by slashes (but not including the slashes). To see how that works, let's define a route like this:
    
    ```c#
    [Route("{year}/{month}/{day}")]
    public ActionResult Index(string year,string month, string day)
    {
      // Do some work 
      return View();
    }
    ```

3.	Open your browser and type the following URL: 
    <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`http://localhost/MVCMusicStore/index/2014/April/lO`</span>

4.	In the preceding method, the attribute route will match any URL with three segments because a route parameter, by default, matches any nonempty value. When this route matches a URL with three segments, so:
    -	The text in the first segment of that URL (2014) corresponds to the <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`{year}`</span> route parameter,
    -	The  value  in  the  second  segment  of  that  URL (April) corresponds to the <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`{month}`</span> route parameter, and
    -	The  value  in  the  third  segment  (10)  corresponds  to the <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`{day}`</span> parameter.

**C.	Defining Controller Routes**
So far, you've seen how to put route attributes directly on your action methods. But often, the methods in your controller class will follow a pattern with similar route templates. Follow these steps to define your custom controller routes:

1.	Consider the routes for a simple <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`HomeController`</span> such as the one in a new MVC application:

    ```c#
    public class HomeController : Controller
    {
      [Route("home/index")] 
      public ActionResult Index()
      {
        return View();
      }

      [Route("home/about"))] 
      public ActionResult About()
      {
        return View();
      }

      [Route("home/contact")] 
      public ActionResult Contact()
      {
        return View();
      }

    }
    ```

2.	Change  the above  script  with the following  script  to allow user invoke each action method on maps to a URL under <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`home?`.</span> 
    
    ```c#
    [Route("home/{acion}")]
    public class Home Controller : Controller
    {
      public ActionResult Index()
      {
        return View();
      }

      public ActionResult About()
      {
        return View();
      }

      public ActionResult Contact()
      {
        return View();
      }

    }
    ```
    We've removed all the route attributes above each method and replaced them with one attribute on the controller class. When you define a route on the controller class, you can use a special route parameter named <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`action`</span>, and it serves as a placeholder for any action name. It has the same effect as your putting separate routes on each action and typing in the action name statically.

3.	Change the above script with the following script to allow user invokes  each  action  index method  on maps to <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`/home/index`</span> or <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`/home`:</span>
    ```c#
    [Route("home/{action}")]
    public class HomeController : Controller
    {
      [Route("home")] 
      [Route("home/index")]
      public ActionResult Index()
      {
        return View();
      }
      
      public ActionResult About()
      {
        return View();
      }

      public ActionResult Contact()
      {
        return View( );
      }
    }
    ```
    When you specify a route attribute at the action level, you're overriding anything specified at the controller level. In the preceding example, if the `Index` method only had the first route attribute (for home), it would not be accessible via `home/index` even though the controller has a default route for `home/{action}`.
    
    If you're customizing the routes for an action and you do want the default controller routes to apply, just list them again on your action.

4.	The earlier class is still slightly repetitive. Every route begins with <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`home/`</span>(the class is named <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`HomeController`,</span>,after all). You can say that just once, using <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`RoutePrefix`:</span>

    ```c#
    [RoutePrefix("home")]
    [Route("{action}")]
    public class HomeController : Controller
    {
      [Route(""))
      [Route("index")]
      public ActionResult Index()
      {
        return View();
      }

      public ActionResult About()
      {
        return View();
      }

      public ActionResult Contact()
      {
        return View();
      }
    }
    ```
    Now, all your route attributes can omit <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`home/`</span> because the prefix provides that automatically.

5.	To make home controller support the URL /  in  addition to  <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`home/`</span> and <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`/home/index`</span> enter the following script:
    
    ```c#
    [RoutePrefix("home")] 
    [Route("{action}")]
    public class HomeController : Controller
    { 
      [Route("~/")]
      [Route("")] // You can shorten this to [Route] if you prefer.
      [Route("index")]
      public ActionResult Index()
      {
        return View();
      }

      public ActionResult About()
      {
        return View();
      }

      public ActionResult Contact()
      {
        return View();
      }
    }
    ```
    
**D. Defining Routes Constraints**
Because your method parameter names are located right below your route attribute with its route parameter names, overlooking the differences between the two kinds of parameters can be easy to do. But when you're debugging, understanding the difference between a route parameter and a method parameter can be important. Follow these steps to define the route constraints:

1. Recall the earlier example with a record ID:
    ```c#
    [Route("person/{id}")]
    public ActionResult Details(int id)
    {
      // Do some work 
      return View();
    }
    ```
    For this route, think about what happens when a request comes in for the URL <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`/person/bob.`</span> What's the value of <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`id?`</span> Well, that's a trick question: The answer depends on which id you're talking about, the route parameter or the action method parameter.
    
    As you saw earlier, a route parameter in a route will match any non-empty  value. So, in Routing,  the value of the route parameter  id is bob, and the route matches. But later, when MVC tries to run the action, it sees that the action method declares its <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`id`</span> method parameter to be an `int`, and the value bob from the Routing route parameter *can't be converted to an `int`*. So the method  can't execute (and you never get to the point where there would  be a value for `id`  as a method parameter).

2. If you wanted to support both <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`/person/bob`</span> and <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`/person/1`</span> and  run different actions for each URL? You might try to add a method overload  with a different attribute route like this:
    
    ```c#
    [Route("person/{id}")]
    public ActionResult Details(int id)
    {
      // Do some work 
      return View();
    }

    [Route("person/{name}"}]
    public ActionResult Details(string name)
    {
      // Do some work 
      return View();
    }
    ```
    If you look at the routes closely, you'll  realize there's  a  problem. One route uses a parameter called id and  the  other  uses  a  parameter called name. It might seem obvious to you that  name should be a string and name should be a number, but to Routing they're both just route parameters, and, as you've seen, route parameters  will  match any  string by default. So both routes   match <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`/person/bob`</span> and <span style="font-family:Courier New;">`/person/1`</span>.
 


