OOP Assesment

1. What is a class?
   a. A set of code that defines a type that represents an entity
   b. An instance
   c. A function
   d. An interface that represents an entity

2. What is an object?
   a. A function
   b. An interface that represents an entity
   c. A set of code that defines a type that represents an entity
   d. An instance of a class

3. What is a constructor?
   a. Any method named using the Create keyword
   b. Any method named using the new keyword
   c. A special method named with the class name

4. What does the Protected access modifier on a member do?
   a. Protects the member from modification
   b. Allows the class and any class that inherits from it to access the member
   c. Allows access only from a base class

5. How is an explicit interface implemented in a class?
   a. Adding the interface name to the class signature.
   b. Writing code for each of the interface members.
   c. All of these.

6. What is the difference between an abstract and concrete class?
   a. Abstract classes don't allow construction using the new keyword.
   b. Abstract classes have no implementation.
   c. Concrete classes don't allow construction using the new keyword.

7. Implementing composition using an Id instead of a reference:
   a. minimizes coupling.
   b. makes it easier to save the entity.
   c. can make the entity retrieval more efficient.
   d. all of these.

8. Which syntax creates a new object from the Customer class?
   a. `Customer currentCustomer;`
   b. `Customer currentCustomer = Customer.Create();`
   c. `Customer currentCustomer = Customer.New();`
   d. `Customer currentCustomer = new Customer();`

9. What is an extension method?
   a. A method that extends the state of a class.
   b. A static method that appears as a method on an existing class.
   c. A method that extends the functionality of another method.
 
10. What is the principle of Separation of Concerns?
    a. Defining parts with minimal overlap
    b. Decomposing an application into parts
    c. Each part is responsible for a separate concern
    d. All of these



